# Is the Key to Getting Rich sitting in Your Pocket? Robinhood Thinks So.

## Overview and Origin

It goes without saying that the financial landscape has evolved exponentially over the last 2 decades. The main factor of the evolution of the financial industry is due to technology and its many advances. Companies that create, adapt and evolve technologies have found themselves disrupting and stealing market share from many of the titans of Finance. Robinhood is one of these companies has done just that, they have developed a platform that is rivaling the likes of large trading companies such as TD ameritrade, Schwab, Fidelity and E*Trade(1). 

Robinhood was founded April 13, 2013 in Menlo Park, California. The founders of the company are Co-Founders Vladimir (Vlad) Tenev and Baiju Bhatt(2). Vlad and Baiju met each other while attending Stanford and got their idea for creating Robinhood while actually working together on at their previous company which, *"served to give tools to hedge funds and banks to build automated trading strategies"*(3). The companies origins stems from the understanding of todays stock markets and the evolution of trading. Trading no longer requires a loud trading floor with screaming men and women, now *"All of the action happens in data centers, a lot of which are in New Jersey, and it's really about who has the fastest systems, the most automated systems, the best software. And those firms have an advantage when it comes to trading."* Understanding the clear need for the best and fastest system as well as understanding that consumers were moving to smartphones as their main tool, Vlad and Baiju compared the insitiutional world, *"where maybe firms were placing millions of trades per day at effectively no cost, we realized that from a technology standpoint, that's not that different from millions of customers placing trades per day."* Vlad and Baiju understanding the opportunity created Robinhood as a private company that has recieved funding through multiple rounds of funding. As of August 17th they received 200 million in a Series G funding that has brought the companys valutation to 11.2 billion dollars from D1 Capital partners(4) bringing the total to approximately 1.5 billion dollars in total funding(2). This funding has allowed Robinhood to expand and develop its mission into the disruptor that it is today. 

## Business Activities 

Robinhood was created to try and solve 2 main issues: first was making the market accessable to all individuals. Second is, *"to make investing friendly, approachable and understanable for newcomers and experts alike."*(5) They execute their mission by providing unlimited commission free trading in stocks. In addition, Robinhood provides cash management (savings account), option trading, accesss to gold, and cryptocurrency. Robinhood positions itself as a company that is intended to  be used by individuals of all ages and understanding of markets. Although an article by the NASDAQ puts the age of the average user between 28-41 (6).The monthly usership of Robinhood has climed to roughly 10 million users a month as of Dec. 2019 (2). 
In order to provide their services, Robinhood uses a great deal of technology. Robinhood uses approximately 22 different applications and data applications, 3 utilities technologies and 24 DevOps (7). Robinhood uses the various technological tools to help create a mobile platform of automated systems that allow individuals to access and trade equities, ETF's as well as trade cryptocurrencies and participate in Derivatives. The big selling point for the company is that Robinhood has free unlimited trading on their platform. Robinhood is also using programs like Apollo to help with their testing environments (8). These investments in the technologies of the company will help with scale and create more efficient, streamlined processes that will help both current and new engineers and allow Robinhood to provide more services, faster, to the consumer. These increased processes will allow Robinhood to stay competitive in their current environment as well as create the cornerstone for future growth and expansion. 

## Landscape

Robinhood falls under the primary domain of investment management. Investment management as a domain has changed over the course of the last 10 years in many ways. One of changes is the current providers in the domain. Traditional wirehouses have moved out of the pure brokerage space and have entered into the wealth management business thus transitioning their business model from being trading stocks to more holistic wealth management and financial planning. This has given rise to low cost trading platforms such as TD ameritrade, Schwab and Robinhood as well as RIA's. It has also given rise to subclasses of wirehouses such as Merrill Edge, Wells Fargo self trading platform etc. The major trends in this space is the use of smartphones and personal devices to lower the barriers of entry, providing low cost and helping individuals of all experience have access to other investments such as commodities and derivatives. The main players in this space are: TD Ameritrade, Charles Schwab, E*Trade, Fidelity, Merrill, Wells Fargo, JP Morgan,Vanguard and Coinbase. 

## Results

Robinhood has had a lasting impact on the Investment managment landscape. Robinhood disrupted the industry by creating a platform that can be easily accessed by millions of individuals, with the ease of a smartphone and the computing power/access to the market like a big investment firm. When looking at companies in the Investment management domain, success is measured by a few metrics: Revenue, Net Income (NI), client Assets under management (AUM), and monthly users (2). Since Robinhood is a private company and does not need to disclose many of those metrics it is a bit harder to measure their success compared to other public companies. However some metrics that do measure success of private companies in this space are: Funding, Valuation (assumed), and number of monthly users. Using these metrics its clear that Robinhood is near the top of the pact with private companies but compared to bigger public companies they have some work to do. In funding they have raised 1.5 billion dollars, putting them well ahead of competitor Coinbase. Due to their most recent round of funding from D1 Capital partners, their valuation is roughly 11.2 billion dollars (4) putting them well within the valuation of E*Trade who has a valuation of 11 billion but still trailing Charles Schwab at 46 billion dollars (2). The most important metric to consider is their monthly user metric which according to the New York times was roughly up to 13 million by May 2020 while Schwab reported 12.7 million and E*Trade reported 5.5 million, Thus making it one of the most popular if not the most popular trading companies out there currently(9). Overall Robinhood is not a leader in all the metrics but it does show that it is higher in the middle of the pack and is aggressively working its way to the titans of the Investment management industry. It is still quite a ways away from the larger banks that operate as both a bank and investment firms which were not compared here due to the nature of balance sheet reporting by banks (the nature of bank balance sheets comingle the bottom lines of all the various divisions of the bank thus obscuring the investment management portion). 

## Recommendations

Overall, Robinhood's impressive ability disrupt the Investment Industry by providing a low cost environment which allows investors of all types to participate in the market as well as have access to various different products through Robinhood has turned Robinhood into a very popular name. Although Robinhood has done some great things there is still room for improvement. A service that Robinhood could offer their consumers is to offer a Robo wealth management planning for an annual cost. The idea here is to follow in the footsteps of other competitors in the current environment and expand Robinhoods reach to the consumers that are not served or don't want to have a hands on approach to investing. Introducing wealth management planning would provide Robinhood with very specific benefits. The first being that they can create a more diverse and expansive ecosystem for current consumers. Consumers can use Robinhood to map out their current financial situation as well as plan for their life goals (ex: retirement, buying a house, dream car) and then connect it to their current investments to see if they're on track and their returns are helping them achieve their goals. It can help with client retainment because if another competitor also offers the benefit of low/no cost trades consumers will start looking to get as much as they can from the company and are more likely to move companies if there is a better deal out there. This will create a more sticky relationship with current consumers. It will also help bring in new consumers because of the fact that they can get some financial planning done at a quick pace and for a fixed price. The fixed annualized cost of the service will create a nice revenue stream for Robinhood while giving an added benefit to the consumer. The financial planning product could utilize an existing financial planning software that would be licensed and customized by Robinhood. A financial planning tool that many companies use iterations of are MoneyGuidePro. MoneyGuidePro uses PHP, Apache HTTP server, Drupal, Zendesk, and Marketo(10). The use of this product and these technologies would allow Robinhood to continue providing its current services via smartphone and online as well as seemlessly introduce the wealth planning product to their consumers. MoneyGuidePro's existing infrastructure as well as their ability to adapt their product to fit the need of their other large clients creates a great opportunity for Robinhood to create a fixed cost for their product and allows them to actively predict the added benefit and revenue that could be expected by utilizing a third party application and having a set client base.

---

## Citations 
1.	https://topratedfirms.com/top/competitor/robinhood-competitors.aspx
2.	https://craft.co/robinhood
3.	https://www.businessinsider.com/robinhood-app-vlad-tenev-founder-free-stock-trading-valuation-2017-7
4.	https://blog.robinhood.com/
5.	5.	https://robinhood.com/us/en/support/articles/our-mission/#:~:text=Robinhood's%20mission%20is%20to%20democratize,for%20newcomers%20and%20experts%20alike.
6.	https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/robinhood-millennial-obsession-2018-08-23
7.	https://stackshare.io/robinhood/robinhood
8.	https://robinhood.engineering/increasing-efficiency-confidence-with-project-apollo-cea1ebe0f282
9.	https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/08/technology/robinhood-risky-trading.html
10.	https://stackshare.io/envestnet/envestnet

---
